in this clip we're going to talk about
the proper service procedure for
removing and replacing a rear axle
u-joint on a Ford Explorer in this step
we're going to talk about the proper
service procedure for indexing of the
driveshaft and actual removal the
driveshaft is not balanced when it's
made and they take it and put it in a
machine and spin it to a high speed and
apply weights to it we're going to want
to match that driveshaft up exactly
where it came from on the vehicle to do
that we're going to use a piece of
soapstone what I'm going to do with my
soapstone is taking draw a large line
down the driveshaft on to the other side
of the u-joint
and down the axle flange and on to the
differential case the reason why I put
such a large mark on there is during the
service procedure you may rub off a
small mark if you're just taking put a
little dinky mark on there you may
actually rub it off and then you run the
possibility of lining it up out of
balance on this style.you joint or
driveshaft you're going to have to use a
hammer to break the corrosion between
the pinion flange and the end of the
driveshaft so I'm going to hold on to it
with my hands and pop it with a hammer
as you can see it's beginning to break
free you can do is just slide it out
from there
all right and there we go once you have
it free from the pinion flange you can
slide it out of the front of the
transmission or out of the rear of the
transmission it just slides together
just go ahead and grab ahold of
driveshaft and slide it out
just like so
that is the proper way to index your
driveshaft and remove it from the
vehicle for you joint service